docs: add release notes for pcp 2516 (#2251)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/release-notes.md

tags: ["release-notes"]
---

## Feb 16, 2024 - Release 4.2.12

### Bug Fix: IaaS Cluster Repaves Causing Cluster Downtime

#### Affected services

IaaS clusters in Palette 4.2.x prior to 4.2.12, including Palette SaaS, self-hosted Palette/VerteX, as well as dedicated
instances. Affected cluster types include the following:

- AWS IaaS (not EKS)
- Azure IaaS (not AKS)
- Google IaaS (not GKE)
- MAAS
- vSphere
- OpenStack Managed Kubernetes clusters on EKS, GKE and AKS are not affected. Edge clusters are not affected.

#### Issue Summary

We identified an issue related to cluster repaves in Palette 4.2.x. During a cluster upgrade that required a repave, the

> Palette Agent running within the clusters would delete all the worker nodes within a worker pool before provisioning new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Palette Agent deployed within the clusters would delete all the worker nodes within a worker pool before provisioning new
```
Ableism

worker nodes This results in the worker pool being down during an upgrade. All workloads within the pool will be offline
during the upgrade.

If the cluster is configured to enable updating worker pools in parallel, then this can result in all services on the
cluster becoming unavailable.

#### Customer Guidance

> This issue has been addressed in Palette 4.2.12 and its corresponding Palette Agent version 4.2.4. To identify whether
> your cluster is using an affected agent version:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This issue has been addressed in Palette 4.2.12 and its corresponding Palette Agent version 4.2.4. Use the following steps to identify whether your cluster uses an affected agent version.
```
Making it a bit clearer the following content are steps to follow.

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

> 2. From the left **Main Menu**., click **Clusters**. And then select your cluster to view cluster details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. From the left **Main Menu**, click on **Clusters**. Select your cluster to access the cluster details page.
```

> 3. At the bottom of the cluster details page, you can see the Agent version used by your cluster. If your Agent version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. At the bottom of the cluster details page, the Palette agent version used by your cluster is displayed. If your Agent version
```
Ableism

   is any of the following versions, your cluster is still susceptible to this issue: 4.2.0, 4.2.1, 4.2.2, 4.2.3

::: warning

Ensure that you do not initiate any cluster repaves as long as you are using an affected agent version. Changes in the
OS or the Kubernetes layer would initiate an cluster repave attempt. When you get the cluster repave notification,
reject the repave.

:::

**If you are not using an affected agent version**, no action is required on your part. If you plan to upgrade to 4.2.x
in the future, ensure you upgrade to a version of Palette that's 4.2.12 or later.

> **If you are using an affected agent version**, first make sure that your Palette version is 4.2.12 or newer. Once you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**If you are using an affected agent version**, first make sure that your Palette instance version is 4.2.12 or newer. Once you
```

> have confirmed your Palette version, unpause Agent upgrades for your cluster if they are paused. To learn how to toggle

Reviewer: Would this not be the first step? To pause platform upgrades?

Author: So pausing platform upgrades when you have an affected agent version won't do you any good because the agent version has this repave issue. I think Customer Success have already advised some customers who are using agent 4.1.x to pause upgrade so they don't upgrade to 4.2.x, which has the issue. 

Once the fix goes live, they no longer need to pause the upgrade. Some might still choose to for other reasons, but if they are using an affected version, they need to unpause it.

> agent upgrades, refer to
> [Pause Platform Upgrades](./clusters/cluster-management/platform-settings/pause-platform-upgrades.md). In 5 - 10

Reviewer: ```suggestion
agent upgrades, refer to
[Pause Platform Upgrades](./clusters/cluster-management/platform-settings/pause-platform-upgrades.md) to learn more about pausing updates. In 5 - 10
```

> minutes, the Palette agent should upgrade to a new version that includes the bug fix. If the agent does not upgrade for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
minutes, the Palette agent will upgrade to a new version that includes the bug fix. If the agent does not upgrade for
```
Changing from "should" to "will" - that way we convey confidence in our guidance.
